# Initial Enumeration

## System Enumeration
### System Information

In windows commands run the commands to get the system information,First find out what OS we are connected to:

```
systeminfo
```

one liner

```
systeminfo | findstr /B /C:"OS Name" /C:"OS Version" /C:"System Type"
```

 Next find out the hostname
 
```
hostname
```

### WMIC 

windows management instrumental command line 

**Check Patching** (Quick Fix Engineering)

```
wmic qfe
```

One liner

```
wmic qfe get Caption,Description,HotFixID,InstalledOn
```


**Drive Information**

```
wmic logicaldisk get caption,description,providername
```

## User Enumeration

check username

```
whoami
```

check the privileges of the user

```
whoami /priv
```

check the groups user involved in

```
whoami /groups
```

Check all the users on machines

```
net user
```

check information about the users 

```
net user <username>
```

```
net user babis
```

Check the local group information

```
net localgroup
```

```
net localgroup administartor
```

## Network Enumeration

**Checking IP address**

```
ipconfig
```

more information of IP

```
ipconfig /all
```

**arp tables**

arp -a displays the ARP  (Address Resolution Protocol) cache table for all available interfaces.

```
arp -a
```

**routing tables**

Printing routing tables

```
route print
```

**netstat**

That brings us to the active network connections and the firewall rules.

```
netstat -ano
```
   
## Password Hunting

- People store password in files.
- Search for the password stored in files
- Swisskey repo --> Password hunting.
### SAM and SYSTEM files

The Security Account Manager (SAM), often Security Accounts Manager, is a database file. 

The user passwords are stored in a hashed format in a registry hive either as a LM hash or as a NTLM hash. This file can be found in *%SystemRoot%/system32/config/SAM* and is mounted on HKLM/SAM.

## AV & Firewall Enumeration

**AV**

Query for window defender status

```
sc query windefend
```


Query for all the services running

```
sc queryex type= service
```

**Firewall**

Check the firewall state 

```
netsh firewall show state
```

Check the firewall configurations.

```
netsh firewall show config
```
