
# WSUS

## 1 Understanding WSUS?

**Overview**

- Windows update is a Microsoft service that provides updates for Microsoft Software.
- Orchestrator (Part of OS) on devices scans for and Downloads updates.
- Clients and Server can be configured to get updates from the Windows updates Server.

WSUS provides an infrastructure for managing updates for windows devices.

Clients --> WSUS --> Internet --> Microsoft Updates

**WSUS allow you to :**

- Choose the updates you want to download
- Test updates before broad deployment
- Choose which devices get updates and when.
- Track Status of updates.

## 2. WSUS Requirements

**Prerequisites**

- 1.4 GHz or faster x64 processor/
- 2 GB RAM or greater.
- 10 GB+ Disk Space
- 100 Mbps+ network speed
- .NET Framework 4.0 --> Already built in OS.
- Microsoft report Viewer Runtime 2012 --> To view report --> download from Microsoft.
- Storing Updates 2 option
	- Windows Internal Database (WID)
		- Un-managed
		- Can't be shared
	- Microsoft SQL Server
		- Paid 
		- Needs Configuration
		- Can be shared.




## 3. WSUS Deployment Options

**WSUS Implementation**

- Single Server- 
Multiple Server
	- Parent - Child Relation
	- Upstream - Downstream Relation
	- Parent / Upstream get the updates from Microsoft Updates, then Child / downstream from them.

**WSUS Hierarchies**

- Autonomous mode
	- Admins can approves the updates on child servers.
- Replica mode 
	- Child WSUS servers mirrors the approved list from the parent.

**WSUS Database**

- Windows Internal Database
- SQL Server Database

## 4. WSUS Installation

- Server Manager --> Roles & Features
- On Server Roles --> Tick the Windows Server Updates Services
- Under WSUS on Content pages --> remove the checkbox stores updates.
- Default for others and --> Install
- Click on the Post installation  configuration.
- Done

## 5. WSUS Configuration


- Server Manager --> Tools --> Windows Server Updates Services.

**WSUS Wizard Opens.** 

- Needs to download a lot of data so, we don't need to do that --> so server not connected to the internet --> Save times.
- Cancel the wizard.
- Updates Services Windows opens.

**Update Services Windows**

- Under Server (RTS-DV1)
	- Updates
	- Computers
	- Downstream Servers
	- Synchronizations
	- Reports
	- Options
		- Most of the configurations options are listed here.

**Group Policy with WSUS**

- Go to the Group Policy Management --> Edit the default domain GPO.
- In GP Management Editor
	- Computer Configuration
		- Policies
			- Administrative Temples
				- Windows Components
					- Windows Updates --> Open

**Windows Updates Settings**

Few related settings

- *Specify Intranet Microsoft updates Service Location*
	- Enables
	- Set the WSUS service name. (URL Format) --> example http://wsus.socintern.com

- *Configure Automatic Updates*
	- Enables
	- Set the options.
	- Define the schedule for installation.

- *Enables Client Side targeting*
	- Enables
	- Define the target computer name, in case of OU level policy

****
















